[Term Entry]: Swift Protocol: Decoder (#3241)
Codecademy/docs: content/swift/concepts/protocols/terms/decode/decode.md

---
Title: 'Decoder'
Description: 'Enables values to be decoded from a native format to a custom format.'
Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Protocols'
Catalog Content:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/ios-developer'
---

> **`Decoder`** is a type that allows the decoding of values from a native format such as JSON or XML  into an in-memory representation like a struct, class, or enum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`Decoder`** is a type that allows the decoding of values from a native format such as JSON or XML into an in-memory representation like a struct, class, or enum.
```

> > **Note:** If you are also looking to encode values into a native representation, it would be beneficial to use the `Codable` protocol as it supports the use of both `Encodable` and `Decodable`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If a given use-case requires encoding values into a native representation, it would be beneficial to use the `Codable` protocol as it supports the use of both `Encodable` and `Decodable`.
```

Reviewer: first and second personal pronouns (I, you, we) are avoided generally in docs

> ## Syntax

Reviewer: add an empty line after the header

> In order to `Decode` values, they must conform to the `Decodable` protocol as it initializes from a decoder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to `Decode` values, they must conform to the `Decodable` protocol as it initializes from a decoder.

```

```pseudo 
struct someStruct: Decodable {
	// Properties that conform to Decodable
}
```

> In the syntax above, all struct properties will be decoded

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the syntax above, all struct properties will be decoded.
```

> ## Example

Reviewer: add an empty line after the header

> In this example a `Dog`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example a `Dog` struct is declared as well as a `dogData` JSON string. It is then converted from JSON to a `Dog` object.
```

> `struct` is declared as well as a `dogData` JSON string. It is then converted from JSON to a `Dog` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```swift
import Foundation

struct Dog : Decodable {
  let name: String
  let age: Int
  let breed: String
}

// JSON string to be decoded
let dogData = """
{
  "name": "Clifford",
  "age": 10,
  "breed": "Big Red"
}
""".data(using: .utf8)!

// Converting the JSON String to a Dog object
let decoder = JSONDecoder()
let dogString = try decoder.decode(Dog.self, from: dogData)
print(dogString)
```

> This will output `dogData` as a `Dog` object:

Reviewer: add an empty line after this sentence

```shell
Dog(name: "Clifford", age: 10, breed: "Big Red")
```

> ## Example using Codable

Reviewer: add an empty line after the header

> As mentioned above, using the `Codable` protocol over `Decodable` or `Encodable` is beneficial in scenarios in which you want to both `Encode` and `Decode` objects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, using the `Codable` protocol over `Decodable` or `Encodable` is convenient for scenarios that require both `Encode` and `Decode` objects. 
```

> In the below example a `Car`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the below example a `Car` struct is declared and an instance `car` is created. It's data is encoded to a JSON string, then decoded back to a Swift object.
```

Reviewer: code formatting should be used when referencing a specific element within the code, such as a variable, or a specific thing/term in the given language. In this circumstance it seems like encoded and decoded are used generically. It is not referring to something specific such as the variable `decoder` or the protocol `Codable`
